Terminette's Day, 1
By mister Sean Witt.
Entitled
Do the hard things.
Thank you, Ben.
Good afternoon, everyone.
It's good to see all your smiling faces and see our visitors here today.
Happy uh back to keeping the sabbath on uh
Saturday,
Thank you.
having services that is anyway
It's nice to see everybody again. Thank you.
Okay, so I don't know how you all individually operate.
but i tend to put things off.
I tend to put off the hard things.
that i just don't want to deal with.
And because of this, it tends to get me in trouble.
I would rather work on the easy things first. And I think most people are like that, they tend to put the hard things off. it's just human nature.
But today I would like to talk about the importance of doing
The hard things and not putting them off.
Because the ramifications they can cause here are some reasons
Because some of the ramifications can be,
Of putting things off that are hard, it can cause fear.
Anxiety
Overwhelm.
A feeling of unqualified
not smart enough, less than, unworthy, feeling stuck, or simple laziness, or just in a few. And what I was trying to say there is, these are some of the reasons why we might be
We might be putting things off.
That you have fear, you have anxiety,
That you feel unqualified, that you're not smart enough. so.
The hard things you may put off because you're feeling this way, like, I'm not really ready to do that. And so,
You just do the easy things.
So all of these can stem from
Experiences in our past
And they can become our own worst enemy.
By the dialogue and the thoughts that we have.
And Satan can get into these wounds in these areas where we have these feelings.
And he can create and amplify these thoughts we have
And continue to accuse us to make us feel like we're unworthy.
Which can ultimately keep us stuck and not moving forward, doing the hard things.
Because he is our accuser and he can get into those areas and.
really work on us.
So,
I would like to go to
First Peter, five, verses six through nine.
So humble yourselves, therefore, under God's mighty hand, that he may lift you up in due time,
Cast out all your anxiety
On him, because he cares for you.
Now this is a new international version.
And I like the way that it puts.
That we cast our anxiety on him.
Be alert.
End of Sober Mind: Your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion
Looking for someone to devour, resist him, sending firm in the faith,
Because you know that the family of believers throughout the world is undergoing the same kind of sufferings.
You know, so people,
All of us are dealing with this kind of thing in our life. we have hard things in this life.
Anxiety is fear.
Fear of the future.
We do not need to worry about the future. We just need to trust in him.
And what a blessing it is that we can give our fears to him.
We don't need to carry them around. We need to give them to God.
Because the alternative is opening ourselves up to being attacked by Satan.
We are also all suffering in one way or another, and negativity can easily enter our minds if we're not careful.
as we strive to take.
Our thought's captive. it's important to steer clear
Of negative thinking patterns.
When those who?
When those harmful thoughts arise, we can replace them with the truth of God's word, right?
To shield ourselves against spiritual attacks.
Being aware of what we listen to, what we read, watch,
Will be allow
To influence us can make a big difference.
We have the power to choose our thoughts.
And leaning into positive
Aids to help us achieve brighter outlook on life and faith.
And being able to do the hard things.
So you can see the way you think and process things can affect the way you approach life.
And putting off the harder things.
I mentioned earlier how fear, anxiety, overwhelm, feeling unqualified, not smart enough,
Less than unworthy, feeling stuck.
Or simple laziness can keep us from doing harder things.
So it happens if we continue to allow these things and thought patterns
What can happen if we allow these
Feelings and thoughts and patterns overrule us.
Um,
Things that can happen if we allow that to happen is some examples I have.
Because of putting off hard things,
uh you might have passed deadlines like at work because you keep putting stuff off and that's going to put you.
At a higher risk of.
Issues.
Worsening health issues
Like, you're afraid.
To go to the doctor. so you may have some health issues because you're putting off these hard things.
It can lead to eating disorders.
Failing grades in school, bad credit scores.
Job loss, ultimately, um.
You know you can probably think of a few more, but these are just a few examples. And I'm not saying this is solely how things happen.
Like you might lose your job or different circumstances and such, or health health issues, but these are just examples of ways.
Of how.
Not doing harder things can lead to bigger issues in your life.
So ultimately,
The more we continue to put hard things off it'll cause more undue stress headache
And trauma in our lives.
I'm speaking about this today because it's something I'm currently working on in my own life, trying to break, ah,
Old and current thought patterns.
That have been keeping me stuck in a lot of ways.
Of not doing the hard things.
For pretty much most of my life, I've been a procrastinator, and you put enough hard things, and I'm really trying to break these patterns.
In my personal life, I've given some of these examples before, but I'd like to share with you to gain some more context.
So I'm going to give you some examples of
Doing things in a timely manner.
So I think the one example I'll probably give is I'm a quality assurance manager at a steel processing company.
And it's very fast paced. there's lots going on every single day, and I'm putting fires out all the time with my guys. it might be an issue over here, an issue there.
And so I feel like my time is all over the place. And,
the more weighty things that i should be focusing on i like kick the can down the road a little bit i can distill with that later.
But eventually the processes that we have, we're going to have an audit at some point. I know there's one coming up,
And I need to be prepared for these things. And so it just causes more anxiety and stress and fear.
Things that I could avoid if I would just take a little bit each day and work on those things to keep me ahead.
So I'm really
Trying to dial that in, and I feel like it's It's working, but just as an example, um?
just like I have a spreadsheet where I keep all these uh
Issues that happen. and if I don't get on that every single day before I know it, I got like twenty of like I need to put in there, and it's just it's just too much. so.
It's good to do the hard things to think about it and just... I don't know.
Work on a little bit each day to be on those things.
So I'm not trying to shame myself. I know there's a lot of circumstances.
For how I've navigated through this life. and it can be your upbringing, just traumas that you've had. there's there's a lot that goes on in our life.
Kind of shows where we're at and how we navigate.
I'm just a point. Let's see.
You know, I'm just at the point where I'm becoming more aware of these patterns, and I'm trying to make a course correction. like I said, I'm at work. I'm trying to stay on these things.
Um,
So this wasn't going to be in my message, but I'm going to mention it.
About doing hard things.
so.
I decided I've been following this guy online. I decided to do it ten day fast.
So I just finished that yesterday.
And it was hard, but I made it through it. so I'm proud of myself. so.
I just want to continue to stay on a health.
Travel, and I think as.
Not just on a
Physical level, emotionally doing that, I think cleared a lot of things out that.
ah just the way i deal with things in life and i'm not saying it's the end i'll be all cure but i think just.
Because when we fast, we're drawing closer to God. even though this was for physical reasons, I feel like.
There's there's.
Just things that were cleared out, emotional issues and such throughout my life.
and i kind of want to brag on terry as well because when we had the men's retreat.
He was walking back and forth and we had to walk a lot.
and he was getting really tired and when he got he's like you know what when i get home i'm gonna start walking and he walks like five miles a day.
And he still does it. He was telling me in the rain, it doesn't matter. And he's...
Getting healthy and
lost a lot of weight and so really proud of you that's pretty awesome.
But I know that, uh,
So anyway, those are just a few examples of stepping out and doing hard things.
So let's go now to 2 Timothy 1:7.
For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power.
and of love and a sound mind. We need to be praying each day and asking God to help us.
Remember, God loves us and wants to help us with everything we encounter in this life. He's there to help us.
Okay, so now we're going to read Philippians 4, verses 4 through 9.
Rejoice in the Lord always. I say it again, rejoice. Let your gentleness be heard.
Evidence to all,
The Lord is near.
Do not be anxious. Notice there's anxious there.
About anything
But in every situation, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving, present your requests to God and the peace of God, which transcends
All understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Jesus Christ.
Finally, brothers and sisters, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable,
If anything is excellent or praiseworthy, think about such things.
Whatever you have learned or received or heard,
From me, or seen in me, put it into practice.
"And the God of peace will be with you."
So, in conclusion.
We need to start recognizing these patterns.
That we
That we can be doing, it can be doing its harm, and we pray about them seeking God's help to shine this light.
On them
Breaking away from the strongholds of fear.
Of doing hard things.
And start to be able to do hard things now if we are able, because perilous times are coming. So we need to be
working on doing these hard things because times are going to get pretty tough. So if we can start working on
Just doing hard things now can kind of help us in that event.
we're going to have some hard decisions to make.
Some of the we can't even imagine we have no idea
But God is in it with us.
Let's go to Joshua 9 for a final verse.
I have not
It commanded you?
Be strong.
And of good courage, do not be afraid.
Nor be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go.
What a wonderful promise to know that God is with us.
He is with us in the hard times, the good times. He's with us always.
So remember this.
God is always
With us he is here to help us to do the hard things